Dear fellow practitioners, please join hands and recite the
Buddha's name:
Namo
Buddha
Shakyamuni,
Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni
[music]
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, each and
every cause and effect in our lives
leads to the
consequences we will experience later. Those causes and effects... If
the cause and effect is good and brings us joy,
then that will generate blessings. If the cause and effect is
bad and we
bring joy, then it will also automatically result in
consequences. Therefore, the state of our mind
is extremely important,
dear fellow practitioners.
If our mind is not yet shaken, then
those consequences will
manifest only moderately, that is, just enough,
making us feel normal.
For example, if
we
go out today and see people
arguing, we feel unhappy, we feel
normal, thinking it's their business,
arguing makes us unhappy, that's all.
Those are the things...  When we do
things that we find
enjoyable, or even engage in unwholesome actions,
we don't experience a
strong emotional shock. But if we experience a
strong emotional shock, there will be
karmic consequences, some of which are
long-lasting, either good or bad.
That's why,
in Buddhism, the Buddha
often teaches us about emotional
shocks. For example, if someone
visits the four sacred sites of the Buddha and their mind
is immediately shocked, and they
lose their physical body, they will immediately be reborn in heaven.
However, if they visit the sacred sites of the Buddha
without experiencing an emotional shock, and they
simply die from illness or something similar, they will
still receive blessings and wo
n't be reborn in heaven immediately.
But if the emotional shock occurs at that moment, for
example, when
visiting the sacred sites of the Buddha, if they feel deeply moved by the
Buddha's grace, or if they
witness a scene there and are
deeply moved...  At that time, due to
some karma, or because of impermanence, our lives would
immediately be reborn in the heavenly realm.
That's the amazing thing, dear friends. Therefore,
whatever brings us
joy, we only need to consider whether
that joy is good or evil. We will then know what
our future karmic consequences will be,
dear friends. If this action is
good and it stirs or moves our hearts,
then that is good.
For you, dear friends, we have
just completed
this year's Rains Retreat program, the Six Harmonies Dharma, called the Human Practice of the
Six Harmonies Dharma.
Now we are beginning to be trainees leading the monastic community.
This is
a significant opportunity, dear friends. We
haven't even talked about
what we accomplish during our time as Dharma
leaders, but we just need to nod in agreement and joyfully accept the role of Dharma
leader practicing in the Six Harmonies Dharma.
Actually, it's because in our past lives
we still had much evil karma.  You may
not see the miraculous effects
immediately, but once you nod and do
this, the blessings will last for
countless lifetimes, my esteemed friends. That
blessing, that karmic connection, is so
powerful. This is an
action with profound
meaning. Firstly, this action is about the
desire for enlightenment for oneself and for
everyone to walk the path of
enlightenment. That's a great blessing, and there's a very large karmic reward waiting for you.
If we only practice Buddhism
with a vague, directionless mindset, just to
seek luck,
then the blessings are
small. We'll just consume them until they're gone. The
blessings are very small, but
coming here to clearly practice the
Six Harmonies, with Right View, with precepts, with a
clear purpose, is
truly a turning point for
us. In the outside world, people call it a turning point
in life, but for us, it's much
deeper and longer. It's a turning point in the cycle of reincarnation, my esteemed friends. This is a
turning point in our cycle of
reincarnation; we create the karmic connection to escape
reincarnation. My esteemed friends, you see
the merit.  The Six Harmonies are so great, and the merits of the
Six Harmonies are inconceivable,
dear fellow practitioners. Practicing the Six Harmonies is beyond comprehension,
leading to the attainment of Buddhahood and perfect enlightenment, which is extremely
great, dear fellow practitioners. Therefore, if
we talk about the effort we have
put in
from beginningless time until now,
this effort is the most meaningful,
bringing
absolute happiness to ourselves and lasting happiness
to all beings. As for any other career, even a career as a king
or official
only lasts for one lifetime. After
that, during the course of being a king or official, one
may commit
sins, just like the
Buddha. The Buddha told many
stories of when he was a king in his past lives of reincarnation.
After his merit ran out, he was punished. When his
merit ran out, he fell
straight into hell. But if
anyone truly walks this path of Bodhi with diligence,
from now until
the end of their life, wherever they
practice, they will see the
benefits of the Dharma, they will rejoice, and
they will be able to...  When the Bodhi Mind is free from
defilements,
then we will be very
happy. Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, I, Han Quan, am
only sharing the true story of my mind
with you.
Now, you and Han Quan
are fellow practitioners,
walking together on this path. From a
young age, Han Quan was a
person who deeply loved morality
and harmony. From childhood until before he knew about
Buddhism in this lifetime, Han Quan was
always the center of
reconciliation, whether with adults, relatives, or
friends. He was never in any group where he was subservient to you, dear practitioners. He was never in any group where he was
subservient to you.
Just a little while later, Han Quan became
class leader and then joined the
school's grading committee. That is, in any group, Han Quan
never went down to a lower position; he was
only subordinate to the leader, not to
anyone
else.  My dear, no
one in my family was born the second child,
but I have the most say in the
house. I am a pillar of support for my parents, both
emotionally and otherwise. They love me very much. My
father's office is just a small place, but the
whole office is very happy with my
daily routine. My father's office even
knows how to go to the potato and peanut harvest season. Since the office is
near the village, my father's office is
also a source of joy for the whole office.
That is, my father's routine is that I was
very well-behaved and polite when I was little, and everyone loves me when I talk to them. So,
from a young age, even after going to
first grade, I would
stand by the village road where
people usually carry rice, potatoes, peanuts, and other crops.
Whatever crops they were carrying, my
father would give me a hand.  The basket was
standing nearby, and then I would cross my arms
like this. When some women carrying baskets passed
by, I would greet them. Then they would pull out a
peanut and throw it in there. That evening, the whole
staff would eat, and I would go begging for alms
from a young age. That's how it was, dear friends. It was like that
until I studied Buddhist teachings, and I
realized that
this practice of begging for alms had become
so perfected. So, when I went begging for
alms, I would give alms to the whole staff to eat. Dear friends, that's how it was. My
mind was still very small,
but in the office, wherever I went, near or far,
everyone gave me gifts. That's
why when I focused my mind on meditation, the more I remembered
everything from when I was born. The more I focused my mind on meditation, the more I
cherished the practice.
Indeed, that blessing was very, very
great. When I went to school, I met teachers who were very precious. My
mind was very precious, so strangely precious,
but very
genuine. I lived extremely honestly, not
knowing how to deceive or
lie, very straightforward and truthful, like you,
dear friends.  My friend has always been
very straightforward and honest with this Mindfulness Meditation from childhood to
adulthood; his character hasn't changed, he's very
genuine. In
this life, when my mind begins to understand the karmic connection for
spiritual practice, he
tells the Buddha, "I only need to
find a
teacher who can help me progress in my practice.
I don't need anything else."
Knowing about his past lives
and knowing his teacher is the
power of practice from previous lives. My friend, are you
happy? That's
why my mind speaks of destiny.
In the world, people use the word "destiny" as superstition,
but it sets a path for oneself
from now until future lives, and it doesn't change.
It only follows
this path until the day of achieving
Supreme Enlightenment; it never changes
again. I have a predetermined path in this life, and I
know what I will do in the
next life, what my purpose will be, and what I will be born
into in the next life.
When the time comes, I will know
what I will do and who I will be. That is happiness, my
friend.  It is extremely beneficial, something
that cannot be bought with money, not with
possessions, not even with a king,
not even with the king of heaven. The only way is through
cultivating the Six Harmonies and attaining
supreme enlightenment. Therefore, as lay
practitioners, we must
practice the wisdom that the Buddha taught: "The
foolish worry about the affairs of
this life, the wise must know how to worry about the affairs of
this life and the next." Dear friends,
we must put ourselves
on the list of wise people, and once we are
on that list, we
must strive. Nothing comes naturally;
everything is within our
own efforts, illuminated by
wisdom. Dear fellow practitioners, through diligent
training of body and mind, illuminated
by wisdom,
we must steadfastly overcome all difficulties to
succeed. If we are not steadfast,
we easily fall into
temptation. We must be steadfast as the master has taught,
always avoiding distractions in our purpose.
Walking this path is a path of
great blessings, both fame and fortune.
For example, shortly, dear fellow practitioners, you will enter the
Dharma hall.  Helping people a little will
earn
gratitude, and there are many more. However, the Six
Harmonies Dharma will help us avoid being swayed by worldly
desires, preventing fame and
fortune from corrupting us and causing us to lose our aspirations.
All the rules of the Six Harmonies Dharma,
practicing them in the club, help
us avoid worldly desires. If someone is
steadfast, wise, and able to practice, that's fine. But
if we lack wisdom and
steadfastness, we will do illegal things.
This isn't about
stealing, but about falling into temptation
because of money. For example, we might
exploit
Buddhists by asking for gifts,
borrowing, or not practicing the club's rules. Some might
also exploit the
reputation and trust of others,
living immorally. When we
embark on this path, we
must set goals, goals
illuminated by wisdom. Therefore, the practice of
mindfulness, which is used from
this life to countless lives to come, has only one goal:
knowing the Dharma and practicing
it.  Knowing
what to do, what to practice to achieve Supreme Enlightenment,
knowing what one must do, what to practice
to achieve Supreme Enlightenment—
that is the only desire.
Besides that, nothing else is needed. Dear fellow
practitioners, this will
continue from this life to countless lives to
come. The mind of contemplation is the same;
even in this life, the mind of contemplation
has already revealed this. When seeking the
path of practice, the mind is completely devoted, devoting everything to the
path of practice because it is so
valuable. Therefore, it has always been this way.
The mind of contemplation has been like this for many years, close to
tens of thousands of fellow practitioners in the Dharma assembly. There
is never anything
that makes me feel
uneasy about my path to liberation. I
never
desire fame, wealth, or emotions; I am never
hindered by those things. I
live very happily, dear fellow practitioners, I
live very happily, without
hindrance, without dependence, without being
misled by
those things. No one else has them.  The use of fame
is to give the mind of the enlightened one a certain reputation
among the esteemed fellow practitioners. The mind of the
enlightened one is not
hindered if, as you see
on social media now, the
case of the mind suing Venerable Thich Nhat Tu,
the mind of the enlightened one is not
hindered by fame, regardless of who the teacher is.
If the teacher affects the
Dharma of the Buddha, the mind of the enlightened one will still protect
the esteemed fellow practitioners. The mind of the enlightened one will not be
hindered, even if it is falsely accused, even if the mind of the
enlightened one is evil and goes to prison. The mind of the
enlightened one will never be hindered,
esteemed fellow practitioners. With the only path of
practicing the righteous Dharma, there will never
be any obstacles. In 2019, the mind of the
enlightened one told you about the
turbulent times;
everyone thought the mind of the enlightened one
would go to prison. The mind of the enlightened one
only checked itself and found not a single blemish, not even the
smallest one. If falsely
accused or harmed by evil
beings, the mind of the enlightened one would
accept going to prison and still live a noble life,
not caring. Therefore, the mind of the enlightened one
says...  I wholeheartedly follow the path of
ultimate goodness in
this vast universe, the path of seeking
Supreme Enlightenment. Dear fellow practitioners, for the sake of
your own enlightenment and the enlightenment of all sentient beings, this
is the highest, most noble, and most supreme path of goodness.
Therefore, the mind of
Han Guan is unhindered. Before, when
Han Guan's mind was not yet established,
many Dharma centers were formed. This is why some
Dharma centers were
continuously harmed.
Because those practitioners in
surrounding areas saw Han
Guan's prestige, Han Guan's
prestige in Ha Long City, everywhere they invited him,
everywhere they went. Then Han Guan was
reported to the police, people followed Han
Guan, he went ahead, and people followed.
Dear practitioners, you are not hindered by this, but you are never hindered,
never give up.
I only need to examine my own mind, dear
fellow practitioners, my mind is pure, I have no sins, I
have no sins. Always examine
your own mind. Once you have examined your mind,
the mind of Han Guan will not be hindered. When
the mind of Han Guan leaves the decision to choose
this path, the mind of Han Guan...  Having chosen
this path, and with a mindful focus in meditation,
seeing my past lives and
my work in this life, I
decided to live a lay life but leave my
family. Then, my husband, Han Quan,
said he would go to the temple to tell the master
and try to stop me. He told his parents and
everyone else. Han Quan said, "
I won't listen to
anyone. No one can persuade me to abandon
this path because this
path doesn't bring happiness to
one
person, but to the
many. So, anyone who doesn't understand that
will hinder me, but I
won't be hindered by
anyone. I am an enlightened person, how can I be
hindered by those who are
not enlightened? Isn't that right,
dear friends? That's the unique perspective of Han Quan's mind. Han Quan is sharing this with you, dear
friends. Therefore, with
this National Golden Club, Han
Quan has guided us through many
storms, but with just one word: truth.
I am always good, and all the fellow practitioners following
Han Quan must keep their minds
always good."  We are always
virtuous and dedicated to our noble purpose, for the sake of all sentient beings. There
is no
obstacle we cannot overcome; the
only fear is that we will use
this path to compare and exchange with
worldly pleasures. That is, we will
return to our old state, the state of a sentient being
in the cycle of reincarnation from beginningless time,
becoming a fool who only cares about
worldly affairs, only
seeks food and sustenance for this body
in this life, and then dies and suffers in reincarnation.
If we accept being a fool like that,
we will return to the old path.
Here, foolishness is wisdom, what people call
enlightenment and non-enlightenment. Understanding clearly, understanding
correctly, and not understanding correctly—there are
precious great friends. Therefore, the path we choose is a noble path, a path we choose
for ourselves for countless lifetimes to come until the day we achieve supreme enlightenment, becoming a Buddha. It's not just about choosing
a profession or
business to earn a living in
this life, to get married and
have children.  The countless
worries, anxieties, and sorrows of the next life are
not like that;
this direction is a direction that transcends
everything. Therefore, it requires mindfulness,
remembering clearly what we are choosing. What
is the goal we are striving for, dear
friends?
This goal is to
lead sentient beings
to
happiness, a noble goal. It's
not just about
preparing ourselves with
ordinary minds, focusing on food, clothing, money, and fame. That's
not suitable for this path, although
we need food, clothing, money, and fame.
But walking on this path, it will naturally
generate merit, dear friends. It will naturally
generate merit. When we
do good deeds, merit will naturally arise.
But among countless good deeds,
this is the highest good, and among
countless ways to create
merit, this is the
highest way, dear friends. There is no way to
create merit as high as
this merit. We are a dignified person who
practices correctly the prescribed rules
of this saying.  In this lifetime, our esteemed fellow
practitioners have already gained much love from many people.
In this lifetime, you,
as Dharma center leaders, only need two
years of diligent practice to be
loved by the Buddhists. You will
feel it yourself; you will possess an
energy that makes others love you
in your relationships. You will
feel it immediately if you
truly and diligently practice
all the regulations of
the club. Because we change
our karma completely, we
become good people, reputable people, and
very virtuous people. If
anyone in the Dharma center's management board
wants to
advance on this path, we must strive diligently.
Then we can become Dharma
center leaders, and those Dharma center members who
want to strive diligently can volunteer to
join the management board.
Anything that brings us happiness
must be earned through effort and
wisdom, esteemed fellow practitioners. Nothing comes
spontaneously;
we have two types...  There are two
types of karmic connections that arise for us,
but they both require the same
effort. One is diligent effort, that is, diligence in
virtuous deeds and enlightenment, then we
receive blessings. If we don't
diligently do this, we will
diligently pursue evil deeds and do wicked things. We
are not people who stand still; we only
walk on these two paths. The rest is up to
us to choose, my esteemed friends. I
will share my
thoughts with you, my esteemed friends.
We cannot stand still; our minds are
always thinking, never ceasing to
think. We are the ones who
decide, and we are always doing.
We are the ones who decide what we do.
We cannot stand still because we
are not inanimate objects;
we are always thinking, and we
cannot stop thinking because we have not yet
entered samadhi (meditative absorption), so we never
stop thinking, right? Only
those who enter samadhi can
stop thinking and rest.
We have not yet stopped
thinking, so in these two paths...  One way of thinking
is to think good, the other is to think evil.
We choose one, which is to think
good. Our mouths are always busy;
when something needs to be said, we choose to
speak good or evil. Our bodies are
always working; we cannot stand still because
we are not sick and bedridden.
Therefore, we only choose one: to do good or to
do evil. Isn't that right?
We must choose. If we
don't know how to choose, and we do good when we encounter
good, and evil when we encounter evil, then we are truly
unintelligent. We are called "three-faced," meaning we must
listen to whatever comes our way. We lack
decisiveness. We must be
decisive, independent, and self-reliant, right, esteemed friends?
Independence and self-reliance, without being hindered,
we must cultivate
a strong character. Is
n't that right? In our minds, we see
some people saying, "But I'm afraid." I'm
afraid of others. The mind thinks, "Oh, they're
afraid of me."
Why not make them afraid of me?
Instead of being afraid of
others, why not find a way
to make them afraid of me?
All day long, we have to be afraid of people, right?
Oh, why is that? We always
let ourselves be dependent on others, and then
let others be dependent on
our thoughts—those evil people,
right? We must be resolute. People
always invite us to do evil, and we refuse because
we are afraid. We must build
a character that makes
others feel intimidated by us, my esteemed friends.
We must have a
strong and decisive character so that others are intimidated
by us. We shouldn't let ourselves be intimidated
by
others, right, my esteemed friends? That's
right, what is there to be afraid of?
In a group of friends,
if you often go out and have fun, you start by being afraid that
people won't take you along, and that
will
shape your character. To form a character, you must
demonstrate it. Maintain a firm stance in your studies, my esteemed
friends. From childhood to adulthood, maintain an extremely
firm stance in goodness.
For example, regarding cheating on exams,
say no to cheating.
Maintain your stance:
if you don't cheat, you won't cheat; if you don't cheat, you
won't cheat.  Maintain your
stance in everything you do.
In a group, in a class, you must maintain your stance. On
one side are those who are considered
disobedient. You must never follow
them in anything,
without any pressure. You can only follow the
Han-style meditation if you
want to; otherwise, you will never
be hindered. So, dear friends,
remember this:
for new friends, the
Han-style meditation is just a story. For older friends, you've
heard it many times already. You know that when you go
to 10th, 11th, or 12th grade, and enter
high school, that's when you choose your friend Tam Chi-Qu. At
that time, half the class went
to Tam Chi-Qu's house to play. That season, Tam
Chi-Qu's house was planted with cassava. Then
a storm
knocked down a few cassava plants, and some tubers were just starting to sprout,
probably only a little bit
like a finger. Then
you said, "Oh, those cassava plants have fallen, let's pull them up and boil them." Tam Chi-Qu said, "But
at that time, I didn't pull them up." Then you said...
I was stingy and pulled them up, but it wasn't
harvest season yet, and my mother would be sad. Then, my mind went to Bao, saying, "I can't pull them up, it's
not yet harvest season." My esteemed friends, I must always be self-reliant. Once I've taken something, once I've chosen something, I must maintain my stance on that character. The next day, my mind heard whispers among my
friends. Yesterday, I went to Yen's house and said I'd pull up some
cassava roots, but I was stingy. My mind went in one ear and out the other,
ignoring what people said.
I pretended not to know anything, ignored it, and was
n't affected. There was no back-and-forth.
Later, I still had to stick with my mind.
So, my mind was
formed in my class.
The whole class decided to skip class. My mind was left with only
two people: my mind and a class
secretary. My mind, the class president, didn't skip class, and I didn't skip class. The
whole class ganged up to
skip class, and I didn't skip class. My
viewpoint was clear, my esteemed friends. My
mind was a
resolute and strong person; once I'd chosen a path, I would
stick to it, and no one could
change my mind.  Therefore, the mind of mindfulness
can stand
firm alone against all the storms of
life, nothing can make one
surrender. The mind of mindfulness when choosing a husband, when choosing a partner,
when choosing a husband, the mind of mindfulness
also makes a promise: These things are
inviolable to me, my father, my mother, even if the two of
us have problems. If we fight, argue, or offend my
father, mother, or siblings, I will
leave them immediately without
explanation. No explanation, no apology –
that is an inviolable promise, I will leave them immediately
without apologizing. If they only offend my
father, mother, or
siblings, you can offend each other freely if
you are angry,
but only slightly. Therefore,
I will leave those people and will not accept
an apology. But I will
never, ever offend your parents or siblings in my life. I will
never violate this choice, and
absolutely will not
dare to violate it when I get married because my mind of mindfulness is very strong and
not dependent on others. I
will tell my husband that in this world, only my father
and mother are the ones I will never leave.  And you too, your
father, your mother, you mustn't abandon your siblings, you
mustn't abandon your wife, and you mustn't
abandon your sister. As for the wife and husband, if they nod, they become
husband and wife; if they shake their heads, it's
not allowed. So when we get married, there must be a
decision, a rule in this life that cannot be violated, dear friends. The Heart-Mind Consciousness ...  The
unforgivable transgression
against one's parents, which the
Buddha taught, means that throughout one's life, one should not suffer from such things. Do you
understand this point? Then why ca
n't we be strong? We should be strong,
because we can do it and earn our living. So
here, I share with you,
dear Dharma friends, that when we
see something as good, we must
think thoroughly before
accepting it. We must think about
its benefits, think about our purpose,
and how to achieve that purpose,
this ideal. We need to
ensure what we
should do to achieve
this ideal, and what we shouldn't do that will
affect our ideal.
We must be ready to accept it, dear Dharma
friends. You must know that a
strong character is a key factor in a
person's success in life. Without strength, a person
cannot succeed in this life. We
must be strong, but as
disciples of Buddha, we choose to be strong
in goodness. Do you understand that being strong in
goodness is crucial?  Therefore, we
will benefit ourselves not only in
this life but also in many future lives. Through
that goodness, we will receive blessings,
safety, and
happiness. The mind of the practitioner, Han Quan, recounts this story to the esteemed fellow practitioners.
Later, when the esteemed fellow practitioners listen to
the Dharma, they will find these stories
old, but when establishing a new Dharma center, the
mind of the practitioner will often tell
them about the
wonderful law of cause and effect. It
preserves goodness, which we maintain
when we are young, before practicing Buddhism. That is,
we haven't yet connected with our true selves; we are merely dependent origination,
not yet
connected with our vows and aspirations.
Our virtuous actions are merely the cause,
allowing
us to align with our vows. The mind of the
practitioner, Han Quan, is the class leader. From elementary to
middle school, that is, from the old days called from grade
4 to grade 5, from grade 4 to grade 5,
there was
this boy who failed and was in the class of the
mind of Han Quan, but he was mischievous, what
we call a mischievous student now is called a mischievous student.  From
5th to 6th grade, or something like that, they call him a
problem student, repeating two years. My esteemed friends, when you go
into the classroom, you'll
be the class monitor,
and then the
teacher assigns him to sit at
the first desk, and he immediately runs out the door.
The teacher keeps lecturing, and when she turns her
back, he runs
outside. Then he runs back in.
Actually, the "mindfulness of mindfulness" is about being
honest and truthful. When you
do something, you do it and complete it. Then you
stand up and say "Good morning, teacher," and
then you request
to move him to the back of the class. I
say, "Teacher, during class time, this student
is the one who keeps the
attendance book. He keeps the attendance book and everything, and then
on Saturday, during class time, he reports that this student has gone outside so many times during class time. So he requests to move him to the middle row, but he doesn't. He runs outside, my esteemed friends! It's Saturday,
and Saturday is the last day. He says, "
I just finished that..."  I told Tam Chieu that the reason
was because Tam Chieu's father's name was
Thuong, and somehow, when my mother came
to Thuong, she cursed Tam, saying, "Today you're going to die, and your father is dead!" I said that at that time, I probably didn't think of that situation before, my esteemed friends. I accept that this trip back will get me
beaten up by the school, my esteemed friends. Those
old guys always beat me with sticks, my esteemed friends. I
accept that this trip
back will definitely get me beaten up. Because my Tam
Chieu house is right
outside the school gate,
about 500 meters from the gate.
Walking to Tam Chieu's house is like climbing a
mountain. It's probably about
two kilometers, almost two kilometers, my esteemed friends.
Then, he and a few other guys
took long sticks and started beating me up. I
accepted that I was going to get beaten up. So, as soon as I
approached Tam
Chieu's house, there was a group of more than a dozen guys, bigger than me, who beat them up badly, my esteemed friends.  I didn't understand what was happening.
Later, I heard
that those guys were from the
school next door, and somehow they came and
beat him up. But for three years straight, he avoided
Tâm Chiếu and Hàn Quán, and even though he was quiet and polite to the
teacher, he improved and moved up to the next grade.
The esteemed fellow practitioners were ranked higher. It turned out
he thought the guys who beat him were Tâm
Chiếu and Hàn Quán's group. He did
n't imagine they were his own group. So he did
n't dare... he didn't dare... esteemed fellow
practitioners. So, isn't it true that when we do good deeds, we have good karma and continue to do good deeds? The good
Dharma protects us, and when
we practice Buddhism,
we start to think about
things from our childhood to adulthood.
These things are really amazing. It turns out that's
the result of our good karma.
No one can violate our bodies, and
even
our promises come from our good karma. We
don't suffer from karma. It turns out that
we are filial, so naturally...
I love respecting my parents,
so I made a promise that
my parents wouldn't be affected. I love
the community, so no one can infringe
upon my siblings. I love
everyone, so I made a promise that
no one should infringe upon my person, my esteemed fellow
practitioners. That is
my blessing, and it will last
for many lifetimes. It will
last for many lifetimes, especially the mind of the
enlightened one, which is not cursed or insulted.
In the family, I see my parents
as the most beloved and pampered,
but in a way that is obedient, not just
pampered, but based on their achievements in the
present life within the family, my esteemed fellow practitioners. So
here, I share
my story with you, my esteemed fellow practitioners, because
it is so beneficial for this practice.
It brings
happiness to me for many lifetimes, it guarantees
me for many lifetimes. I tell you, my
esteemed fellow practitioners, when I got
married, my husband gave me all his money.
Of course, I am a
very kind person who treats both my own and my husband's families very well.
That fairness, that character, makes Tâm
Chiêu Quán love himself even more,
cherishing his practice of giving to both
sets of parents equally. Tâm Chiêu Quán takes care of both sides equally,
never having a single thought of
worry about that matter,
so there is no such worry in the family. The
husband comes home from work and gives all the
money to his wife, never having to worry about
how much money is in the house. Tâm Chiêu Quán takes care of both sides of the
family, managing the money
very appropriately. The money comes in and the two of
them spend it however they want, never
worrying about each other's
spending or anything else. They are very
happy. That's why
Tâm Chiêu has said many times: don't be greedy for money. Don't
take money from anyone. Money is something that
causes a
lot of suffering. If children go astray, stealing money will
also cause death and suffering,
right, dear fellow practitioners? Is that right? So,
don't steal money. When you
practice, you only give alms, there's no
need for money. That's why you
see that the club has
very strict rules about money.  Do you agree?
Not accepting donations is not
something to discuss. In
special cases, it must be
brought before the club. It has a
public nature, protecting oneself, right? It's not
acceptable to accept or transfer money on behalf of others.
That's the public aspect, making
one feel pure and tranquil with money.
Tâm Chiếu Quán became the head of the
Dharma center and the head of the club, but
when Tâm Chiếu Quán became the head of the Dharma center,
Tâm Chiếu Quán established a finance committee.
Tâm Chiếu Quán never accepted or
took money from anyone; it's very peaceful and
doesn't need money. Tâm Chiếu Quán even
told the esteemed Dharma friends, "When I went with the younger generation
to India and
Thailand, I completely forgot how to spend money. The
esteemed Dharma friends even forgot what money looked like
because I didn't spend
it. It's been so long since I spent money that I
forgot because I always went with
others. The esteemed Dharma friends see, I
don't need money at all.
Once, when I was on
duty with my master, he said, 'If you want money,' I said, 'I
don't have money, I
don't want money.' Then the master...  B. Remember, if
I were to get lost, where would I get the
money to take a taxi or anything else home? I
wouldn't have any money. Even if I had money, I wouldn't have to take
it. But in family life, I would
n't be short of
money, not too rich to be spoiled, but not
too poor, not too difficult to
earn money, but not so much that I would become spoiled.
So I wouldn't be
troubled, and therefore, practicing is extremely
beneficial and brings happiness. Do you
see how happy
you are, dear fellow practitioners? The karmic reward I receive is immense,
lasting for many lifetimes.
So, giving is giving, and we
gain purity. Without greed, we become noble,
right, dear fellow practitioners? Is that correct?
Without greed, we become noble. Without greed at all, we become
noble and beautiful. When I
first established the Dharma center, I
knew about the monastic rules
regarding money. I only knew
one rule, and I don't
know who the Master was talking to that day, but I
heard that you shouldn't
keep money.  The money of the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha) cannot be kept
overnight. Monks are not allowed to keep the
money of the Three Jewels overnight. If you borrow money
from the Three Jewels, it will double the next day.
Everything
that the mind needs is
known in the Buddhist precepts, dear fellow
practitioners. And so we
build upon the Buddhist precepts, building
our own spiritual practice. Because we know the
precepts, we do not violate bad
karma. That's very good, dear fellow practitioners.
So you see,
regarding the money, it's also transparent. That's
why the accounting committee of the National
Golden Mind Cultivation Club says everything must be
transparent down to the last X. We
accept state audits into
our club and work in the
club's finance committee.
Buddhists are the auditing committee,
so we have
everything detailed down to the smallest detail in the
karmic cycle. It's very complete, dear fellow practitioners. Your offerings
and acts of charity must be for the purpose of releasing animals.  Donating
to the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha) is a charitable act. Everything must be done properly;
no money should be mixed with other
money, not even a
little bit. Don't even think
about wasting it, let alone spending it. The karmic
consequences are terrible. The
paperwork is detailed and meticulous. The mind is focused on the fund. The fund is
not about spending money. The mind is focused on
the accounting department.
As for the money for charity, we
call on the community to see if anyone is suffering and if
the community can do it. We ask the
club, and then the club goes on to do charity
until it's all gone. That's all, is
n't it, dear fellow practitioners? If there's money for releasing animals, we
distribute it to the community to release animals, just
to gain merit for ourselves. If
there's money for the fund, we use it however we want. The temple needs it, but
what does the temple need? The Three Jewels committee makes offerings on the 15th, 15th, and 16th days of the
lunar month, and then the charity ceremony. The
club spends all the money. That's all, dear fellow
practitioners, do you see?
So, regarding money, we must be
pure. Whether a person is
impure or not depends on two things: firstly,
love, and secondly, money. We must...
Those two things are clearly solemn and
pure, esteemed friends, do you agree?
Then we will become
dignified, respected, and beloved people, living
peacefully without any obstacles or
fear. Isn't that right, esteemed
friends? And in our
club, we have
very clear rules. Here, I
repeat, no one is allowed to force anyone to make offerings. It's
very difficult to force anyone to make offerings in the Golden Chrysanthemum Club; it must be
pure, right,
esteemed friends? No forcing, only encouragement and
sharing of the Dharma. That's very
strict. So now,
I will go into the
main content of today's meeting. The
first part, the Mindfulness Meditation, encourages you
esteemed friends to clearly see and understand the
benefits of your choice
and what we need to pay attention to. To
gain real benefit,
it's like planting a mango seed;
how many tons of mangoes will we get
before the mango tree dies?
Do you understand, esteemed friends? Therefore, we practice like
this.  Practicing and performing meritorious deeds at the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club
only benefits Buddhists because we have the
correct method of practicing the Buddha's teachings,
so we benefit greatly. I also want to
remind all fellow
practitioners that we should be flexible, understanding, and
supportive, but we must
uphold the rules. Do you understand, fellow practitioners? Support and
spread the teachings to help
our fellow practitioners awaken to
our goal. Respectfully, dear fellow
practitioners, strive to learn and awaken
yourselves, practice the Dharma for your own benefit,
and try to help others. Then, let me recount
the story that my
master told: There were two
men in hell who were about to
end their hellish existence. Then
King Yama asked them, "You two have been
reborn as humans, ending
this hellish suffering,
so you can return to being
humans." Then there were two cards:
one card represented a lifetime of giving, and the other
represented a lifetime of giving.  One person received something back, and that's what
I call a "hellish"
spirit. It quickly raised its hand first, saying, "
I'll receive it all my life." Then,
all that's left is the card to give
away, and that person has to receive it. So, the person who
received it all their life is reborn
as a beggar, forever begging and
pleading for a lifetime. But the other person, the one who reluctantly accepted the card and had to give away their life, is very wealthy, lives a rich and virtuous life, always giving and advising others. Giving
is advising and teaching
others good things,
always instructing and guiding them.
He achieved success in his
career, always giving with
all his heart, from thoughts of giving to
thoughts of giving, to thoughts of doing business and creating
work for many people. That's why,
throughout his life, he only gave.
Therefore, we must
learn to give throughout our lives so that in every life we ​​may receive it.
Let's practice giving, dear fellow practitioners.
Giving through thoughts, words, and deeds is the way to avoid
poverty, is
n't that right, dear fellow practitioners?
Whatever remaining time we have in this life,
we must cultivate the practice of giving. Our
thoughts should be about
helping others, helping them alleviate
suffering, helping them attain enlightenment, and helping them progress. Our
words should be about supporting and guiding
others, teaching them how to practice,
cultivate, and give.
Isn't that right, dear fellow practitioners? Our actions should also support and help others; isn't that how we give throughout our lives?
From now on, we
should only give, not expect anything in return. Receiving is the law of karma.
That's why the
Buddha only gave and
never thought about receiving anything in
return. Receiving is only for the sake of the blessings
bestowed upon sentient beings.
Therefore, from today onwards, we
walk this path of giving
without expecting gratitude from sentient beings, dear fellow
practitioners. Never with words.
We say that calling
others ungrateful is not
the path to seeking gratitude from others.
We must give to
those who harm us, not to mention those who are ungrateful, right? That's
our path.
We've chosen this path, and
we must be good to those who harm
us, giving to those who harm us.
But it must be giving with wisdom. For example,
the mind of the Hoan Quan (a type of Buddhist meditation) towards Venerable Nhat Tu
is the mind of the Han Quan (another type of Buddhist meditation) towards him. Do you
understand clearly? All
our actions must
benefit others. If
the mind of the Han Quan doesn't reflect on Venerable Nhat Tu, he
has said
many wrong things before, without being careful
in his words. He
even dared to distort and fabricate Buddhist scriptures without caution. Therefore, we must be careful and cautious so that we do
n't fall deeper into depravity,
right? That's giving. That's why
our whole life is about giving.
And what we give must be
appropriate for the person.  Seeing that it's right and
appropriate, we help people
understand what we need to give.
This helps people recognize
good and
evil, helps them
stop doing evil, and
helps them increase their
good deeds. That's what we
give, that's the purpose of our work.
So let's be mindful in
this, never lose mindfulness, never lose mindfulness.
So we live
with
ideals, we live with purpose. Those who live
with ideals and purpose are always
happy, they don't feel like they're
living meaninglessly. The greatest suffering in
life is when we feel we're
living without purpose, isn't that right,
dear fellow practitioners? Living a useful life
without anyone needing us is so
sad. It's so boring, isn't it,
dear fellow practitioners? Living a useless life is so
depressing. So, let's be
mindful and be happy with our lives, having a
purpose for everyone. And dear fellow
practitioners,
from now on, we will live
useful lives.  Isn't that right, dear fellow practitioners?
We are important people in the hearts of
others.
We are important people in the hearts of others. We
live our lives, we contribute, we
appear in this life in a meaningful way, we
appear in this life in a
beautiful way, dear fellow practitioners. Therefore, in
the practice of mindful contemplation, I always tell
myself that I am
not ashamed to be born into this life, I have
no regrets about being born into
this life, no regrets, nothing to be sorry about, nothing to be
remorseful about, only the
one thing is that I need to try harder.
Dear fellow practitioners, you understand that I need to try harder.
And whenever I think about the past, the
hardships I have overcome, I feel
joyful. In mindful contemplation, I think back on the
journey I have taken and feel joyful, I feel
proud of
myself. The greatest joy is that
we live meaningfully, we live
to bring benefit to ourselves, we
live to become valuable people,
valuable to
ourselves, like that stormy year of 2019.  That's right,
but the mind is focused on the Han-style meditation, and the mind is focused on
the heart. I see that I am living a
beneficial life, a truly beneficial life, a
truly good life. There is nothing
to regret, nothing to
think about. That's it, my dear fellow practitioners. I
hope that you, my esteemed fellow practitioners, along with the mind focused on the
Han-style meditation, may have different appearances but share the same heart and mind. My dear fellow practitioners, the word "
comrade" is very good, meaning we share the same goal.
Those are our comrades, fellow
practitioners, sharing the same goal.
We walk this path
proudly, my dear fellow practitioners.
We can live with
what we contribute and live
very positively and
happily. The deep meditation has never been hindered
by the importance of food and clothing. Even if we are hungry, we have never
felt sad or
miserable. Because
when we lack the five desires,
we feel truly great because
we are free from them. Isn't that right, my dear fellow practitioners?
We are free.  To be able to overcome
things that people in the world find difficult to
conquer, and yet remain at ease,
truly makes us great, isn't that right, dear fellow
practitioners? For example, in
2019, if others were slandered,
falsely accused, and ridiculed by society,
they wouldn't be able to live. But we faced
such a great challenge, yet
we remained happy, we remained a
support for everyone. Truly great, is
n't that right, dear fellow
practitioners? This greatness needs to be multiplied and
needs to be further enhanced. From our own greatness,
we can see the greatness of
our masters, of the Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, and holy monks,
right, dear fellow practitioners? We must
always see ourselves as worthy of respect.
We must live in such a way that we
are worthy. We don't need
others to respect us, but if we feel
worthy of ourselves, then we are instantly
worthy in the hearts of everyone,
dear fellow practitioners. That's the title, dear fellow practitioners. With the
guidance of the Dharma center leaders, I, Han Quan, have
seen that you, dear fellow practitioners, are also very worthy,
very precious, dear fellow practitioners.
Just caring for one's own family and fulfilling one's duties is
already precious, but to also care for the suffering
of others, to care for their enlightenment—that's what
makes a Dharma center leader
so precious, dear fellow practitioners. It's so precious, so precious, to be concerned
with the suffering of the
members of the Dharma center, to rejoice in the happiness
of the Dharma and the members. A Buddhist in the
Dharma center, transforming their karma, makes the
Dharma center leader so happy. Therefore, the heart of a Dharma center leader is so precious, dear fellow practitioners, so precious, so precious. It transcends the boundaries of selfishness and family, so it is truly worthy of respect
and admiration. It is truly precious, dear fellow
practitioners, I highly praise and commend you all. I am truly happy to have you as companions, dear female friends. I
have experienced all the
joys and sorrows, and
the Dharma center leader, the head
of the club, will also experience
those joys and sorrows. We are all the same, dear fellow
practitioners.
We will feel the
good people in this world, we will feel the
heart of...  Dear Buddhas, Saints, and fellow
practitioners, we can feel that
we can communicate with the Buddhas and Saints. We can communicate with them,
our minds reflecting on the
Buddha's teachings. Everything is very
good and successful because we are at
peace in their minds.
Although our minds are small,
we are at peace because we also have a concern: the
concern to convey the Buddha's teachings
to sentient beings and the concern to practice
their teachings. Therefore, we are in their
minds, in the minds of the Buddhas,
Bodhisattvas, and holy monks. We are very happy. The mind reflecting on the Buddha's teachings is
sometimes difficult, but we
just need to think that we are in the
mind of the Buddhas. The mind reflecting on the Buddhas overcomes all obstacles.
We are in the mind of the Buddhas,
not in the mind of evil spirits.
Our mind is truly good; we are
in the mind of the Buddha. Sometimes we
think that we are in the heart of the
Buddha, dear fellow practitioners, as a little child
of the
Buddha. We are very happy, very happy indeed.
Therefore, the mind reflecting on the Buddha overcomes
all obstacles because of the mind reflecting
on the Buddha's teachings. Is
this in accordance with the Buddha's will?
Before...  Before knowing about Buddhist teachings,
the mind is focused on the path of enlightenment. At home, the
parents' minds are
guided by the guiding light of enlightenment. Does my
mother get happy
doing
this? Do people praise my mother or my father for what I do?
In my life, I've never thought, "
I'm doing this to get this or that,"
never "I'm
doing this to make my parents happy, to make my parents
praised by neighbors for
giving birth to such a child." When
at home, the mind focuses on the path of enlightenment. Parents are
the guiding light, so when getting married,
having children, everything is prioritized.
My mother and father come
first. Therefore, the mind focuses on
knowing how to behave well with my husband's family, my mother-in-law, and my brother-in-law. I forgive and
never
allow arguments or disagreements. The mind focuses on forgiveness and non-
attachment. That is, I let go of everything as long as
my mother and parents are honored and I don't
do anything that would cause them
harm.
Therefore, when at home, I take...
My parents, K and Lam, when they learned about
Buddhism, took Buddha as
their guiding principle. My esteemed fellow practitioners, if you do this,
Buddha will surely not be pleased. Of course, when
I say Buddha will not be pleased, I'm
just speaking from a worldly perspective, but
in truth, Buddha is very worried about you.
Doing this will be
in accordance with Buddha's will. Doing
this will be in accordance with Buddha's
will. Therefore, my esteemed fellow practitioners,
when you engage in debate, you should
fully grasp Buddha's teachings. You
should consider when to speak the
truth, how to preach, and
how to avoid being criticized by Buddha. Your mind
should never fall into the category of being criticized by Buddha. You must seek out those who
praise Buddha's teachings, and then
choose yourself to be in that category.
Never choose yourself to be in the
category that Buddha would criticize or condemn. That is
wrong,
never. Therefore, your mind should
also aspire to have  My fellow practitioners,
we should all take the Buddha as our
guiding principle, and use the Six Harmonious Principles as our foundation. If we follow the
Six Harmonious Principles, we follow the Buddha's will; if we don't, we do
n't follow the Six Harmonious Principles. Isn't that right, my fellow
practitioners? Following the Six
Harmonious Principles is in accordance with the Buddha's will; not following them
is not in accordance with the Buddha's will. If it's not in
accordance with the Buddha's will, then we shouldn't do it. It's that simple.
Now, let us dedicate
this merit. May we dedicate it to
all disciples and sentient beings, that they may all
attain Buddhahood. May you all strive
diligently.
Goodbye, my fellow practitioners.
[Music]